Add Heatmaps and Funnels to RUM (#26260)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/heatmaps.md

---
title: Heatmaps
description: Heatmaps are a type of visualization allowing you to see where users click on your website.
aliases:
- /real_user_monitoring/heatmaps
further_reading:
- link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/browser/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Session Replay for Browsers'
- link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Session Replay for Mobile'
- link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/visualize-behavior-datadog-scrollmaps/'
  tag: 'Blog'
  text: 'Visualize user interactions with your pages by using Scrollmaps in Datadog Heatmaps'
---

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/heatmap_v2.png" alt="An overview of the heatmap functionality." style="width:100%;">}}

A heatmap (or heat map) is a visualization of your user's interactions overlaid on Session Replay data. Real User Monitoring (RUM) has three different types of heatmaps:

> - **Click maps:** View user interactions (clicks) to understand how users engage with your page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Click maps:** View user interactions (clicks) to understand how users engage with your page.
```

- **Top Elements:** View a ranking of up to the top 10 most interacted-with elements on a given page.
- **Scroll maps:** View how far users scroll down a page, including where the average fold of a page falls. The average fold is the lowest point on a page that a user can see on their device without scrolling.

Use heatmaps to review complex data at a glance, gaining insights around optimizing your user experience.

## Prerequisites

To get started with heatmaps:

1. Verify your SDK version:
  - For Click maps, you must be on the latest version of the SDK (v4.40.0 or later).

>   - For Scroll maps, you must be on (v4.50.0 or later)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For Scroll maps, you must be on (v4.50.0 or later).
```

2. Enable [Session Replay][1].
3. Set`trackUserInteractions: true` in the SDK initialization to enable action tracking (required for Clickmaps).

## Getting started

Navigate to [**Digital Experience > Real User Monitoring > Session Replay > Heatmaps**][2]. Select your application and view.

On the [Real User Monitoring landing page][3], select your application and view. You can select the type of heatmap you would like to view as well (Top Elements, Click Map, Scroll Map).

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/rum-heatmaps-getting-started.png" alt="Select an application to view heatmaps for it" style="width:100%;" >}}

> This takes you to the [heatmap page][2] for a particular view. You can switch the view being shown with the **View Name** and **Application** selectors at the top. To add more granular filters, like a specific geography for example, you can add a filter from the panel on the left side.

Reviewer: Can you clarify "This"? I thought I was supposed to be taken to a separate page, but since it's the same link as in ln.40, I realized I was where I'm supposed to be. Also spent some time looking for the Application selector, it's not explicit in the UI.

Author: updated - thanks!

## Click maps

A Click map shows you the most interacted-with actions on a given view by aggregating user click actions from sessions and visualizing them as blobs on the map.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/heatmap_v3.png" alt="Clickmap data overlayed on a website." style="width:100%;">}}

Each Click map also offers analytics such as:

- Where that page ranks out of all other visited pages
- Unique user counts to that page
- Any frustration signals on that page

Below the panel are all actions that occurred on the page, listed by frequency. When you click into an action, you can understand more about that interaction, for example:

- The number of times the user performed the action and where it falls in overall analytics of top actions on a given page.
- If that action had a frustration signal occurring on it (for example, if a user rage clicked on that button), you can view the associated frustration signals as well.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/actions.jpeg" alt="Shows an example action and the information you can get about that action." style="width:60%;">}}

## Top Elements

> Top Elements heatmaps aggregate click actions on a given view by displaying the most interacted-with elements and their rank. The ranking on the map itself corresponds to the action name on the side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Top Elements aggregate click actions on a given view by displaying the most interacted-with elements and their rank. The ranking on the map itself corresponds to the action name on the side.
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/top-elements-v3.png" alt="A ranking of the top elements clicked on a page." style="width:100%;">}}

Click any action name in the panel to highlight the corresponding action on the map.

## Scroll maps

> Scroll maps show a visual of the aggregate scroll activity on a given page. Use Scroll maps to see where the average fold of the page falls, and how many users scroll to a given depth. You can drag the floating blue bar on a Scroll map to the depth you wish to assess.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scroll maps display the aggregate scroll activity on a given page. Use Scroll maps to see where the average fold of the page falls, and how many users scroll to a given depth. You can drag the floating blue bar on a Scroll map to the depth you wish to assess.
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/scrollmaps-v3.png" alt="Scrollmap of the bedding page in a sample ecommerce application" style="width:100%;">}}

The panel to the left of the Scroll map provides high-level insights with direct links to query results, such as a link to a list of views where the user scrolled past a given percentile. Below the insight panel is a minimap of the page and a distribution graph displaying granular scroll data, useful for identifying where the biggest drop-off occurs.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/scrollmaps-insights-panel.png" alt="A screenshot of the queries for scroll data insights" style="width:50%;">}}

## Backgrounds

A background is a snapshot of a Session Replay. Each heatmap fetches the 20 backgrounds that triggered the most actions during a given session. Changing the background shows different results depending on the background selected. You can use the **Choose Background** button to select a particular background for your heatmap.

A heatmap's list of backgrounds cannot be modified.

## Next steps

> After understanding analytics, the next step is to understand the action in the context of other data outside of heatmaps. This might mean pivoting to the [Analytics explorer][4]. You can also watch associated [session replays][1] to visually see a user performing the action in the context of their overall session.

Reviewer: Optional suggestion

```suggestion
After analyzing heatmaps, the next step is to understand the user action by exploring related data. Pivot to the [Analytics explorer][4] or watch associated [session replays][1] to visually see user actions in the context of their overall session.
```

## Troubleshooting

### I am looking at a heatmap for a given view, but it's showing me an unexpected page.

> Heatmaps are based on Real user Monitoring view names. Depending on how your Real user Monitoring application is configured, many pages can start being grouped under the same view name, or you can start having specific view names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Heatmaps are based on RUM view names. Depending on how your RUM application is configured, many pages can start being grouped under the same view name, or you can start having specific view names.
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/scrollmaps-v3.png" alt="Scrollmap of the bedding page in a sample ecommerce application" style="width:100%;">}}

The panel to the left of the Scroll map provides high-level insights with direct links to query results, such as a link to a list of views where the user scrolled past a given percentile. Below the insight panel is a minimap of the page and a distribution graph displaying granular scroll data, useful for identifying where the biggest drop-off occurs.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/heatmaps/scrollmaps-insights-panel.png" alt="A screenshot of the queries for scroll data insights" style="width:50%;">}}

## Backgrounds

A background is a snapshot of a Session Replay. Each heatmap fetches the 20 backgrounds that triggered the most actions during a given session. Changing the background shows different results depending on the background selected. You can use the **Choose Background** button to select a particular background for your heatmap.

A heatmap's list of backgrounds cannot be modified.

## Next steps

> After understanding analytics, the next step is to understand the action in the context of other data outside of heatmaps. This might mean pivoting to the [Analytics explorer][5]. You can also watch associated [session replays][1] to visually see a user performing the action in the context of their overall session.

Author: ```suggestion
After analyzing heatmaps, the next step is to understand the user action by exploring related data. Pivot to the [Analytics explorer][4] or watch associated [session replays][1] to visually see user actions in the context of their overall session.
```
